[Music]
you
[Applause]
[Music]
so I was coming here every year probably
for at least a couple months in the
winter when the waves and the wind are
best and it's coldest in New York and I
just really fell in love with Maui hi
I'm Graham Hill I'm the founder of tree
hugger and now life edited I call myself
a design / nur because essentially I
have a lot of design experience and
interests but also very big into
entrepreneurialism and starting in
building businesses I just finished with
my company life edited doing a off-grid
house in Maui that is a thousand square
feet but had transformation and sort of
smart layout etc that enables us to make
it a four bedroom two and a half bath in
under a thousand square feet so a big
part of Hawaiian culture I would say is
is being outside it's such a I love it
here because the temperature and
humidity
and airflow or just perfect and so I
would say the house really reflects Maui
and Hawaii in general in terms of how it
interacts with the outside so we have
amazing windows for taking the great
views a big component of the house is
the lanai that we are sitting on right
now and the way that it's basically of
this probably believe we pushed the
living room and the dining room to the
outside of the building so we have nice
overhangs but we're effectively outside
and then we have these fantastic sliding
Andersen doors that open into the
kitchen and so the sort of social area
flows very nicely between the inside and
the outside so that's that's a big
component I would say of Maui and Hawaii
living we also built an outside shower
around one corner where it's it's
actually very private but you have a
really big view of the sky but also down
into the gulch and so that's a wonderful
place particularly at night with a
starry night it's wonderful and then we
carved out a section of the house and
made out an outdoor bathing room with a
beautiful Kohler tub and shower on the
ceiling and so you can basically be
you're covered in case it rains but
you're basically bathing outside and so
a lot of us just bring the outside
outside in and so combination of the
windows and and just the openings on to
the outside I think made it really
successful amount of are so wet life
edited we try to get a lot out of our
spaces and and empty spaces really are
good for no one and so we tried to have
rooms transform such that they have
multiple functions and so what we've
done in in life at Maui is we've created
the basically the three bedrooms
transform during the day into other uses
so so one of them has a couch underneath
the two bunk beds bunk beds fold away
one has a sort of a dining table which
also can be a work table craft table
have you has a desk underneath the bed
and these these literally allow you even
you can leave stuff on the desk so you
can have your laptop and bunch of your
office stuff and you just fold it down
it all stays there and it's hidden
underneath the bed and then you fold it
up when you want to do some work or
writing or art or whatever in the
so particularly where I live in Maui
there's a lot of rain and so what we've
done is we create this water catchment
system the rain comes down hits our roof
and I even did deal with the neighbors
to get a bunch of water from their roof
it goes down these rain chains into
these drain basins goes down down the
hill and we have a 15,000 gallon a sir a
pioneer water tank which is really
beautiful and really well made and
really interesting in that it collects
the water from its own roof they have
this new technology where they made this
fabric roof and strangely most water
tanks don't collect their own water from
their own roofs which seems odd that
anyway they made it so it's really
beautiful works really well and it and
then it's pumped up to another five
thousand gallon tank and then the water
communities from there looking at the
various options in terms of solar panels
we the traditional ones are the ones
with the big serve aluminum racks that
go on top of your roof and listen we're
big fans of all solar panels it's a it's
a great thing
aesthetically not a huge fan of how
those look it just ends up being being
very just gets really they really get in
your in your face they're just a very
big obvious or a thing it's hard to
design them and have them sort of fit
nicely into the architecture and so we
came across this very cool startup
called Sun flare that makes these
thin-film panels that you can
literally stick to the roof and so we
worked with them to have them fit right
in between the raised seam roof panels
and as a result we have we have solar
but it's pretty much invisible and often
people will come over and don't even
don't even know you can't it can't even
tell and I think that's a that's a
beautiful thing battery technology has
really come along and so it's starting
to be really possible to electrify older
cars and so this is the first one I've
done but I and I really picked it
because it's small and made it light and
so maybe easier but I've always loved
the Volkswagen thing and so I found with
my friend David sellers from Hawaii
off-grid we found a great 73 Volkswagen
thing that I bought for five thousand
dollars and then I spent a great deal
more than that on David electrifying it
getting a kit we got it we got we got
some we recycled some Tesla batteries
that we got from they buy from Rex on
the mainland and so I have this really
cool Volkswagen thing that we painted
the same gray is the house it matches
and it's it's terrific
it's totally quiet it's really zippy and
it just makes makes me happy and it
makes it makes everyone around you happy
like I'm constantly getting comments and
people sort of beeping and talking to me
at lights and and it's very cool and
we're like we're literally charging it
you know Sun flare panels are getting
the Sun and it's going into our blue ion
batteries and into my thing and then I'm
driving around the island so I can I can
go for days where I'm living off the Sun
innovation architecture is very tricky
but I think it's also very important and
so
I really wanted to build something that
was aesthetically gorgeous functionally
worked very very well and also was sort
of near future in terms of the
sustainable energy so really really
off-grid but but done in a luxurious
sort of way so that people could see
that that it's available now you can
build a very luxurious house that's an
entirely off-grid and so that's what
we've done
[Music]
you